SFP port == standartized socket for modular tranceiver.
To optical or electric tranceiver could be connected network cooper-based cables or fiber-optics cables, depending on type.
It's usual met on network switches.

SFP acronym decodes as 'Small Form-factor Pluggable'. SFP-port == one that standartized network modules could be connected. 
They calls as SFP-tranceivers or GBIC mini-tranceivers. Transeivers have plugs for fast Gig Ethernet connections or fiber-optics. 
SFP-module hastwo sides: 
- One side known as transducer and has laser for transfer,
- Another side == hand out side, has photodetector.

SFP == per fact it trascripts like transceiver module, as it combined transducer and receiver in same device.

SFP ports are usually adapted in network switches or network routers. 
Dimensions and data of this module detected via form factor commitee in agreement with several MSA sources.
Many equipment manufacturers support this standard. In compare to GBIC standard (Gigabyte interface converter) it has lesser dimensions. 
This allows to use network devices with hiher prots density.

SFP transducers or SFP modules accessible in various execution options. Module itself it's a small device, 
this has connectors from one side, and from another side it has taerminals for fiber optics/twisted pair, covered by special cap.
It may be used for fiber-optics connections with one-moded or multiple-moded fibers and varous wave lengths.
LC-connectors are used for fiber-optic cables connections. Fiber optics connections fixed by fastener levers.
Fiber optics. Also SFP modules available for connection to twisted pair (1000BASE-T). Some modules works with one fiber.
For transmittion direction and receive these modules used various light wave length. Other works with  two fibers and equipped a couple of sockets.

SFP ports advantages
SFP ports in network devices such as network switch have plenty of advantages. 
They provide flexibility, efficiency, and future safety, and may be use for easy/quick replace.
Network devices are simple to switch on another transfer methods and network type. 
Defective modules are inexpensive in replacement and do not require whole device overhaul or whole device replacement.

Depending to GBIC, module SFP significantly lesser. It allows evolve network devices with high ports density. 
With help of SFP modules there is inexpensive option for network device to wide various fiber optics spectrum.
Within new standards or technology, SFP ports equipment appears as prospect. This may be easy for SFP new modules equipment and 
supports current connection options.
One more advantage is that network equipmnet is more flexible to use, as it integrates to any available network infrastructure 
within SFP coreespondent modules. 


SFP/SFP+/SFP28 differencies:
Besides of SFP, the standard expansion also detects SFP+ and SFP28 ports. SFP+ (expanded connected small form-factor) supports more high data 
transfer like 10 Gig/s and appears as SFP successor.
SFP28 has same outline dimensions == SFP == SFP+, while provide upto 25 Gigabyte/sec data transfer.
(with coding and mistakes correction upto 28 Gig/sec gross). Division to four SFP28 ports allow to implement connections capacity of 100 Gig.


SFP ports application areas:
SFP ports could be find in any various network devices and components. 
Ethernet switches, routers, brandmauer and network interface cards equipped by various ports quantity. 
In new devices the SFP+ and SFP28 are oftenly used.
Anlan.ru
